---
title: "Walkers"
date: 2024-05-23
---

[this is my first experiment](/Coding-Blog/codeExperiments/walker-expo1/index.html)

<p>for this first experiement I wanted to experiement more with sound and random walkers. using the starter code I used triangles to create a butterfly effect of lines which builds up over time.</p>

[This is my second experiment](/Coding-Blog/codeExperiments/walker-expo2/index.html)

<p>for this experiment I used the WEBGL parameter again which made a really interesting visual experience with the ellipsoids still having the grid outline which all 3d shapes start with adds a quirky dimension to the visual. by also tweaking the noise and framecount is what gave it that fast paced glitchy look.</p>

[This is my third experiment](/Coding-Blog/codeExperiments/walker-expo3/index.html)

<p>by drawing an ellipse and having pos.x/2, pos.y/2 there it halves the size of the ellipse depending on its position. changing the background opacity and color it makes a clouding effect which could be useful for something like a 2D game or visual experience.</p>

[This is my final experiment](/Coding-Blog/codeExperiments/walker-expofinal/index.html)

<p>for my final experiment I was playing around with making a trail effect for the walkers. the for loop iterates 15 times to draw the trail segments. 
 line(trailPos.x, trailPos.y, prev.x, prev.y); this part of code draws lines between the calculated trail positions. this created a snake like effect with trailing colors which when I added the WEBGL parameter and drew an ellipsoid with the first two parameters being the trail position for the x and y axis. this surprised me at how much different just two changes made from a really simple trail to a choppy grid with some really smooth movements.</p>
