---
title: "3D"
date: 2024-05-27
---

[these are some of the experiments](/Coding-Blog/codeExperiments/3D expo1/index.html)
<p>After experimenting with what can be done with 3D shapes and demonstrating a few of them in my first experiment, I wanted to explore the movement of 3D shapes paired with noise to create a pleasing graphic.</p>

<p>using 3d shapes starter code by @arialabel on p5 I wanted to experiemnt with different capabilities that p5 provides.</p>
<p>plane: 
 translate(-240, sin(frameCount * 0.01) * 50, 0); this part of codeby using the sine function controls the movement on the y-axis creating an up and down movement in a smooth wave like motion.</p>
 <p>cone: 
   with this shape I used a combination of techniques experimenting with point lights and changing the size over time which was interseting to see how the light reacts with different sized 3D objects.</p>
   <p>sphere: 
   with this I wanted to experiement with shadows and mouse interaction, using some code from //https://pdm.lsupathways.org/2_graphics/1_proceduraldrawing/2_lesson_2 I was able to understand and learn more about experiemnting with shadows and transparency and then applying it to 3D shapes in p5.</p>
  <p> ellipsoid: 
   for this shape I wanted to implement noise to create the effect that something is breaking out of the shape. the radius for x and y vary slightly over time based on the noise function. Then the noiseScale and radiusScale constants control the intensity and range of each x and y radius.</p>
   
[this is my final experiment](/Coding-Blog/codeExperiments/3D expo final/index.html)
<p>With this experiment I found a 3D tutorial online to make a spiral flower: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ddu6W0bBI5g 
using this I then took the for loop used in the tutorial then adjusted some of the figures. In the tutorial the final product is several cones making a spiral. after putting in the first for loop I found that it created an unravelling effect paired with the pulsating box gives it an illusive animation. 

for(let a=-15;a<TWO_PI;a+=1): this loop iterates variable a from -15 to 2pi in increments of 1. this allows the following part of code to create multiple copies and changes the start position to create the circular shape.

translate(a+50,0); : this line translates the coordinate by a+50 on the x-axis which places each box horizontally with a spacing of 2.

const hue = frameCount*0.5 % 255; fill (hue, 100, 100); : this code allows iterates through the colors from 0 to 255 at a rate of 0.5 fps. 

box(10 + 10 * sin(millis()/200)); this snippet of code I found online by kjhollen (p5 account) which demonstrates how to give the box the pulsating effect.</p>
